# bachelor-thesis abstract 

Fresh grapes are an important fresh agricultural product, and the grape industry is an important part of rural revitalization and modern agriculture development in the main production areas. With the deepening development of e-commerce, e-commerce platforms have become the main marketing and sales channels for fresh agricultural products. E-commerce platforms contain abundant data information, and mining and analyzing this data can better understand consumer needs and promote sustainable development of e-commerce.

This article conducts data mining research on fresh grape data crawled from the JD platform. After completing data cleaning, this article constructs a prediction model for the average price of fresh grapes. Based on selected characteristics, three classification models, namely K-nearest neighbor model, logistic regression model and random forest model, were constructed to predict the average price of fresh grapes. The experimental results showed that the performance of random forest model was better. In addition, according to the table of importance of attributes to prediction from random forest, this paper analyzes the important attributes to the prediction of the average price. Afterwards, combined with t-test, this article explored whether the attribute differences of fresh grapes at different price points were significant.

According to the output results of the random forest model, the net weight, praise rate, number of comments, whether fancy packaged, whether the origin is in Yunnan, whether JD Logistics, whether it is free of delivery, and whether it is "safe to buy" are more important to predict the average price. According to the t-test results, fresh grapes with lower prices are more likely to have a larger net weight, while fresh grapes with higher prices are more likely to have a smaller net weight; Middle priced fresh grapes are the most popular among consumers; Fresh grapes at higher prices have a higher rating; Non lower priced fresh grapes are more likely to choose JD Logistics, free of delivery, and are also more likely to come from Yunnan.

